Sally MacFarlane: Hello!
Gabriel Trintinalia: Hello!
Jason Frame: Eight
Sally MacFarlane: Last Chance to add anything to the agenda. I
should. I start?
Sally MacFarlane: Uh, i'm gonna wait one more minute.
Sally MacFarlane: It's pretty fast.
Simon Dudley: Hello!
Sally MacFarlane: One minutes a really long time. And
okay,
Sally MacFarlane: okay,
Sally MacFarlane: uh, say, housekeeping. We've got the antitrust notice which uh
one should read
Sally MacFarlane: already. These being recorded,
Let's stay on meet them, mostly speaking
Sally MacFarlane: an input.
Sally MacFarlane: Uh, I will try and keep an eye on the right hand thing. But if I don't see it,
Sally MacFarlane: and
Sally MacFarlane: so I didn't have any general announcements for the on the agenda. Does anyone have anything in general? I'd like to,
Sally MacFarlane: announced,
Sally MacFarlane: No
Sally MacFarlane: uh. So the Roadmap Review.
Sally MacFarlane: Uh,
Sally MacFarlane: i'm not sure if this has been updated recently. But I did
Sally MacFarlane: um put a link in there to the public, Then hub board.
Sally MacFarlane: Um,
Sally MacFarlane: yeah, so it does look like the the roadmap in the Wiki has been updated, but also
Sally MacFarlane: um. This public then have board, I think once we sort of have that set up and established. It should
Sally MacFarlane: probably be a more accurate reflection of what's actually in progress. Um, and what's upcoming because it's based off. Um,
Sally MacFarlane: you know, Github issues and ethics that we actually use
Sally MacFarlane: when doing that work?
Sally MacFarlane: Um:
Sally MacFarlane: So yeah, feedback feedback on that
Sally MacFarlane: good Um,
Sally MacFarlane: i'm thinking of you, den, if that's of interest to you. Um!
Sally MacFarlane: He got a
Sally MacFarlane: um release updates so twenty, two, ten, zero,
Sally MacFarlane: which means that twenty, two, ten, one should be coming up in about a week. I think, Jason, you're on the
Sally MacFarlane: our next one,
Jason Frame: that I am
Sally MacFarlane: awesome.
Sally MacFarlane: Um, i'm not sure. Is Is there anything specific about that release, or is it just sort of um general work in progress, and
Sally MacFarlane: anything you want to say about that, Jason,
Jason Frame: I don't know. I thought it was just
Sally MacFarlane: um cool, awesome.
Sally MacFarlane: So I've also put a link here to
Sally MacFarlane: a
Sally MacFarlane: It is public, even though
Sally MacFarlane: it's not public.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, I will
Sally MacFarlane: figure that out.
Sally MacFarlane: Um.
Sally MacFarlane: Oh, oh, i'll figure that out and get back to you. But basically
Sally MacFarlane: um!
Sally MacFarlane: The idea is to cause the relationship around the marriage. Um! There was some
Sally MacFarlane: uh
Sally MacFarlane: conflict frustrations. Um! So we just wanted to put the effort in. Now that sort of the merger died down, and um the the
Sally MacFarlane: the pressures off a little bit to just sort of um address the issues with our release process that made that a bit frustrating. So I will get. I'll make sure that this document is made public. However, that works um, and we'll get get your report on that demo
Sally MacFarlane: uh you can see where sort of. There's a lot of conversations still happening even with amongst us, about
Sally MacFarlane: how that should work.
Um anything. Do you want to say anything about that
Sally MacFarlane: now? All right. This is the first time seeing the documents, so I shouldn't comment on it. Okay,
Sally MacFarlane: I will. I'll get back to you one
Sally MacFarlane: uh so work updates.
Sally MacFarlane: We Um, we've got Shanghai coming up
Sally MacFarlane: uh,
Sally MacFarlane: so
Sally MacFarlane: I just um put this in a wiki this morning as well. So this is um a short list of what we think is likely to go in Shanghai, and then I think this is a bit of a long list here of things that
Sally MacFarlane: um
Sally MacFarlane: a a further out.
Sally MacFarlane: Uh, I know, Dana, you've done some work already on the Eos.
Sally MacFarlane: Um paces.
Sally MacFarlane: We Yeah,
Danno Ferrin: the is getting kind of an interesting push. Um.
Danno Ferrin: There is a notion of something called largeiof and small Leo F. And what is already approved, for Shanghai is considered smallly. O, it's just the object format and code validation.
Danno Ferrin: Um! But what a lot of the Evm contributors are trying to get pushed is! Add a couple of other features. Um
Danno Ferrin: and um!
Danno Ferrin: There's one other feature
Danno Ferrin: relative jumps,
Danno Ferrin: and if they get those two features in that solves a lot of
Danno Ferrin: what a lot of people like Greg Cole that have been pushing for to get something that can be compiled natively in linear time to to a native machine code,
Danno Ferrin: so that reduces a lot of the risk of of compiler bombs coming in. The problem, is It's it? Some people think it's too big. If if Shanghai is going to ship in Q. One. Q. Two,
Danno Ferrin: um. So i'm working with that group. I'm going to take the lead over the next few weeks to try and you finish off and ship eo f small into
Danno Ferrin: um. They su and and get as far as I can on the Uf. Large. It doesn't look that difficult the issue there is going to be the testing burden, and some of the other features coming in around it to see if those can get limited or not.
Danno Ferrin: Um,
Danno Ferrin: so I think. Uh, There's also another test net that sprung up That's gotten the Etherium Foundation sanction called the Shame don Test net, and that is basically the Shanghai changes um plus most of these. You have large changes on top of it, and depending upon how all court devs goes on Thursday, including all the other little litty bitty
Danno Ferrin: um
Danno Ferrin: stuff that's coming in. So basically anything that's a execution environment related is being pushed into Shang dong to see if we can get it
Danno Ferrin: functional and testing um before the the interop event plan and early January.
Danno Ferrin: It's there's no there's only one G shan dong um. I've made that mistake by
Danno Ferrin: um, and that's we're run by the ethereum Js group. So they're still on that test net. I mean that the tune Id is going to be a moving target. I'm. Already put in the Pr. To add that as a name test net in base. But some of things moving around on that. So that's what i'm working off of. And
Danno Ferrin: what I like about the Shan dong test net is, I've been kind of, you know, stalled on. How do I activate the Shanghai changes because coming out of Dev Con. There have been some discussions. Do we activate Shanghai in a timestamp or at a block number
Danno Ferrin: Um and timestamp looks like It's winning. Um. So that's probably something we should put on the board. Um is is activating the for it to be a timestamp, and while we're refactoring it. Maybe we do the total difficulty.
Danno Ferrin: Um, But those are some changes that are deep being discussed for activating Shanghai. And then, of course, the uh the big items that people want for Shanghai deposits is is the driver for Shanghai, wherever deposits is of deposits needs more time. Shanghai is gonna move out to accommodate it, the the uh
Danno Ferrin: back to the not to pause the um validator withdrawals. That is what's driving the Shane high release, and what will dominate the schedule.
Danno Ferrin: So that's That's one thing to keep in mind. Um forty, eight, forty-four is a target of opportunity for Shanghai. But a lot of people are skeptical, and i'm thinking it's going to be in Canc, which will probably be in the latter half
Danno Ferrin: of um
Danno Ferrin: of two thousand and twenty-three. It's it's very, very important to layer two protocols to get forty, eight, forty-four in as soon as possible. So there's going to be a lot of movement, a lot of pressure and a lot of activity on that, just to give a forecast on it. But if if I had to make it more likely to not call.
Danno Ferrin: I would say it's gonna mission high and make cancun and drive cancun in the second half of the year. But I don't have much confidence on that there's a lot of other things that could make Shanghai and Shanghai could be late. Um it won't come before deposits.
Danno Ferrin: It might come in two thousand and twenty-four it's it's hard to tell with that. So that's um, that's the question
Danno Ferrin: allcore, devs and the eo f break out last week
Sally MacFarlane: was there a night that came out of that.
Danno Ferrin: Yeah, it's in the discord. Um, let me find
Danno Ferrin: it's. Uh there was. It was in the All Court des Channel. Let me go ahead and paste that in.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah, that'd be good
Danno Ferrin: um
Danno Ferrin: copy
Danno Ferrin: message link.
Danno Ferrin: Come back into
Danno Ferrin: discord.
Danno Ferrin: No, that's not what I wanted
Danno Ferrin: necessary to. Actually,
Danno Ferrin: it's going to take you through discord. So let me.
Danno Ferrin: Here's a better link.
There we go,
Sally MacFarlane: awesome.
Danno Ferrin: So what's in and out of Shanghai has not been decided what's in in that account has not been decided.
Danno Ferrin: Hopefully, we'll have clarity before the first of December,
Danno Ferrin: and I think, as far as between those two, the shot. This stuff in Shandong is going to go in one of Shanghai or Cancun, and if it's done enough
Danno Ferrin: um by December they're going to optimistically target. But Shanghai and that's what I'm pushing for.
Sally MacFarlane: Mhm.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay.
Sally MacFarlane: So then,
Sally MacFarlane: this this
Sally MacFarlane: sort of these lists could still change these absolutely. Yeah,
Danno Ferrin: Eo F is big. I'm doing that warm home base. I have code written for that already. Push zero. I have code written ready to go
Danno Ferrin: um.
Danno Ferrin: It's It's in a different. Pr. It's, it's it's combined with my eo F one.
Danno Ferrin: I have not done
Sally MacFarlane: the hang on
Danno Ferrin: warm Coin base. That's that's been reviewed, and it's about to merge. I was gonna let it sit for twenty-four hours before I emerged. It
Danno Ferrin: Push zero is easy. It's it's locked in with my E of change. I could split it out if needed.
Danno Ferrin: Um
Danno Ferrin: code validation thirty, six, seventy that's in my eo F uh prototype
Danno Ferrin: um,
Danno Ferrin: and I haven't touched limit and meter in it, Code. So i'll.
Danno Ferrin: That's gonna be my lowest priority.
Danno Ferrin: That's another one that touches the execution realm. Um! But I think you's going to keep me occupied with small and large. Ef so,
Danno Ferrin: if that's neat, that's um
Danno Ferrin: that's going to make Shanghai. So if if people want to pick that up before December, If not, i'll come and get it near the other December.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, all right. Well, we um, I think. Justin's got his name on it. So yeah,
Sally MacFarlane: Haven't seen that i'll stay away from it.
Sally MacFarlane: We just yeah, we just um
Sally MacFarlane: didn't. We don't want to do rework. I guess we we just want to make sure that Um:
Sally MacFarlane: yeah, I think I posted several times the branch I'm working on
Sally MacFarlane: that. Yeah, with one.
Danno Ferrin: Yeah, my Eos branch. Yeah, there we go. That one.
Sally MacFarlane: So these two are in that one.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah, yeah, okay.
Danno Ferrin: And I've got it packed up. So I took all of the uh reference tests,
Danno Ferrin: and I merge those together. Um,
Danno Ferrin: i'm questionable about some of the quality of some of the block reference tests. I don't think they're quite right yet. Why, they haven't been merged.
Danno Ferrin: But the the general State test I got working for push zero.
Danno Ferrin: And now i'm going to be working on the eolf ones and figuring out what's broken and what's not, I haven't even activated it yet. So
Danno Ferrin: so that's what's coming on. Once Once I get those reference tests
Danno Ferrin: working. I'll look into checking in some of that, but it's not going to make
Danno Ferrin: twenty-two ten one. It might make twenty-two ten to
Danno Ferrin: Well, there's reference tests with the eo f stuff, and this zero has reference tests.
Danno Ferrin: So that was
Danno Ferrin: um. So I have reference tests. Reference tests are going to be my standard, for when I check in
Danno Ferrin: when I can go green on the uh general State reference test on what's checked in and the Prs. These aren't merged yet into like the full reference test developed branch. They're speculatively put in, and i'm sure they'll move around and change it. Get fixed. So
Danno Ferrin: okay. So there's reference tests that are being developed, and you're doing it.
Danno Ferrin: Which Um,
Danno Ferrin: i'm fairly certain is mandated to be zero.
Danno Ferrin: So
Danno Ferrin: i'm not passing those, but it passes the general state variance.
So
Sally MacFarlane: Okay,
Sally MacFarlane: cool. Well, um, obviously, if there's uh other,
Danno Ferrin: you know. Um Eps that need to be added or um things. This this page can be updated. So Yeah, there's a couple of other E. Os: I need to add to the laundry this. But I think we'll get better clarity. I'll wait until after um.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah, all court does to update this, so we can
Danno Ferrin: often off Call is going to be the battle to watch. I'm against it. But i'm not going to block it. But i'm not going to do it.
Danno Ferrin: Yeah,
Sally MacFarlane: I don't know much about that one.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay, awesome. Uh:
Sally MacFarlane: okay. So that's
Sally MacFarlane: uh it for Shanghai. So this Uh:
okay.
Sally MacFarlane: So I think this is basically a discord channel already last week. So we've had some conversations um, internally about
Sally MacFarlane: stability in basic and performance. Um. So basically this
Sally MacFarlane: did we skip the forty-eight forty-four prototyping section was still going to come in
Sally MacFarlane: doing some prototyping with base to. I think I think there's a telegram channel. So if you
Sally MacFarlane: I hate telegram, But i'm going to have to get over it.
Danno Ferrin: Oh, yeah, if you could share that, that might be relevant. I I don't know I can participate. But I just want to be a fly on the wall on that one,
Sally MacFarlane: sure. Yeah. So Ping Helen about that.
Danno Ferrin: Okay, Thank you.
Sally MacFarlane: Uh,
Sally MacFarlane: yes, a stability. And so we've had it.
Sally MacFarlane: Basically a bit of a bind up here on um.
Sally MacFarlane: You know what's hard. He's back with stability right now. What people are complaining about this code? Um, that sort of thing and performance as well. So there's lots of ideas of um things that people want to.
Sally MacFarlane: You know how people want to solve those problems. I think Matt and Helen have um
Sally MacFarlane: done some work about creating epics, and uh hopefully prioritizing those. So I
Sally MacFarlane: I think that should show up on this public, then how board eventually, but maybe not quite yet.
Sally MacFarlane: Uh,
Sally MacFarlane: so I think the epics should be public.
Sally MacFarlane: I'm just not sure how it looks yet to um
Sally MacFarlane: to public eyes. So I think we might just still have better work to there. But
Sally MacFarlane: basically this stability and performance um based on if people have other ideas, I saw um at least one coming from
Sally MacFarlane: um.
Danno Ferrin: I only have one comment.
Sally MacFarlane: Uh:
Sally MacFarlane: yeah, but it it just gives a bit of a an
Sally MacFarlane: a um an insight into um what we're thinking there. And uh,
Sally MacFarlane: but hopefully, it should translate more concretely into a bit of a roadmap view. Soon
Sally MacFarlane: any questions on that.
Sally MacFarlane: So that's it for the agenda. Does anyone have any.
Sally MacFarlane: Let's take that.
Sally MacFarlane: No
Sally MacFarlane: cool.
Sally MacFarlane: Uh, I will get that um
Sally MacFarlane: the release process. Um
Sally MacFarlane: document like that
Sally MacFarlane: for you done,
Sally MacFarlane: and that's it, if nothing else we can
Sally MacFarlane: that Are you in the Us. Are these times correct for you? But gonna you know, in they're correct for this. Yeah, Now we're back in sync.
Sally MacFarlane: So does that mean they were wrong for the last few months.
Sally MacFarlane: And now that the Us. That right
Danno Ferrin: I don't know, I always just go to that times and seasons put in the date and time, and check it out because it's. I don't know. I know Europe and American
Danno Ferrin: uh savings Summertime are different, and I think it's even different from Australia. So I don't know what's going on with it.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah. Well, in Brisbane we don't change our clocks. Ever but in other Australia they do.
I always double check to.
Danno Ferrin: That's why when I first set these up
Danno Ferrin: they were originally fixed to a um utc time, so that way it was on. It was on the individual person to figure out
Danno Ferrin: what was going on with their local time.
Sally MacFarlane: Hmm.
Danno Ferrin: But it's migrated. So
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah,
we're trying to be helpful
Sally MacFarlane: just as long as it's communicated like a day ahead of time. It's
Sally MacFarlane: cool.
Sally MacFarlane: Um, i'm gonna call it there. Thanks. Everyone,
Danno Ferrin: right? Thanks.
Jason Frame: Thanks.